all right so what we're going to do is we're
going to start working on this center region
known as the short loin but before we do let's
just talk about how these muscles uh flow into
each other so the shoulder is removed that would
be ribs one two three and four at least in Canada
our rib section would be ribs
1 or 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 and 12.
and then the 13th rib would be on our
short loin now traditionally what would happen at
a processing plant after the animal is is
bled out and then we uh we eviscerate it
the next process would be the process of grading
and grading would happen where they would actually
make a cut between the 12th and 13th rib while
the carcass is hanging so they can see into
they can they can peer into
this loin muscle right here
and what they're going to do is now they're
going to take a card and they're going to grade
the quantity of fat cap and the amount of
intramuscular marbling and that's how they
will determine whether or not this particular
muscle is getting a "B", "A", "AA", "AAA" or
prime grading and this is all gonna be based
on the color of the fat the color of the muscle
and the size of the fat cap and the and the
quantity of intramuscular fat marbling from there
the sirloin this is where our tenderloin
will start and so this is the tail end of
our tenderloin and as we move along the vertebrae
this tenderloin is gradually going to get bigger
two-thirds of our tenderloin is in the short-loin
region once we get into this part of the sirloin
the rest of the tenderloin is sitting
on top of the sirloin so you have
two-thirds of your tenderloin sitting on top of
the short loin and one-third of your tenderloin or
the chateaubriand end of your tenderloin sitting
on top of your beef sirloin and that is right here